# TaTa-Virtual-Experience-Programme    
## Data Visualisation: Empowering Business with Effective Insights       

In this internship, I went through 4 tasks.  

**Context**;         
An online retail store hired me as a consultant to review their data and provide insights that would be valuable to the CEO and CMO of the business. The business has been performing well and the management wants to analyze what the major contributing factors are to the revenue so they can strategically plan for next year. 

The leadership is interested in viewing the metrics from both an operations and marketing perspective. Management also intends to expand the business and is interested in seeking guidance into areas that are performing well so they can keep a clear focus on what’s working. They would also like to view different metrics based on the demographic information that is available in the data.     

A meeting with the CEO and CMO has been scheduled for next month and I had to draft the relevant analytics and insights that would help evaluate the current business performance and suggest metrics that would enable them to make the decision on expansion.      

**Task 1;**      
*Create a set of four questions that you anticipate each business leader will ask and want to know the answers to. Make sure you differentiate your questions, as both the CEO and CMO view business decisions through different lenses.*    

I drafted out the following questions;     
For the CEO;       
1. What is the company revenue in the last one year? Show average revenue per customer and daily average revenue.      
2. What is the sales distribution across the countries? Show top 5 countries and bottom 5 countries.      
3. What month records the highest amount of sales and customers and what month records the lowest?      
4. What is the quarter on quarter change/growth?         

For the CMO;        
1. How many customers does the company have?        
2. How many customers does the company sell to monthly?        
3. What is the most bought item and the least bought item?      
4. What is the average order value?         

**Task 2;**     
*You have been asked by the CEO and CMO to provide visuals on the metrics that they wish to analyze for the online retail store. You will gather the requirements and provide them with the type of visual that would be best suited to the scenario.*       

To complete this task, I answered the following multiple-choice quiz;       
Q1/5: The CEO of the retail store is interested to view the time series of the revenue data for the entire year. The CEO is interested in viewing the seasonal trends and wants to dig deeper into why these trends occur. This analysis will be helpful for the CEO to forecast for the next year. Which visual would most likely help the CEO analyse the data?         
Answer; Line Chart         

Q2/5: The CMO is interested in viewing the top 10 countries which are generating the highest revenue. Additionally, as a subcomponent, they would also like to see which products are contributing to the total revenue being generated by each country. Which visual would enable the CMO to view the revenue for each country and the breakdown by products on a single chart?         
Answer; Stacked bar chart          

Q3/5: The CEO of the online retail store wants to see how much average revenue is generated by each country. They are interested in viewing the following metrics on the visual: Minimum value, First quartile value, Median value, Third quartile value, Maximum value. Which chart would you create to show the above metrics for the average revenue generated by each country?          
Answer; Boxplot         

Q4/5: The CMO of the online retail store wants to view the information on the top 10 customers by revenue. They are interested in a visual that shows the greatest revenue-generating customer at the start and gradually declines to the lower revenue-generating customers. The CMO wants to target the higher revenue-generating customers and ensure that they remain satisfied with their products. Which visual would help the CMO understand the data on revenue generated by the top 10 customers?               
Answer; Column Chart       

Q5/5: The CEO is looking to gain insights on the demand for their products. They want to look at all countries and see which regions have the greatest demand for their products. Once the CEO gets an idea of the regions that have high demand, they will initiate an expansion strategy which will allow the company to target these areas and generate more business from these regions. He wants to view the entire data on a single view without the need to scroll or hover over the data points to identify the demand. Which chart would be most useful to provide the CEO information on the demand in each region?         
Answer; Map Chart         

**Task 3;**      
*You will create the visuals around four of the questions that the CEO and CMO have requested. You can use either Tableau or Power BI to create the visuals and we’ve provided the data in the resources below. Before you can begin the analysis, make sure that the data is cleaned properly.*    

The following data cleaning process was carried out on Power BI;          
- Filtered out all quantities below 1 in the quantity column         
- Filtered the unit price column for any price below $0     
- Changed the customer ID column to text, to enable categorization.     

Question 1        
The CEO of the retail store is interested to view the time series of the revenue data for the year 2011 only. He would like to view granular data by looking into revenue for each month. The CEO is interested in viewing the seasonal trends and wants to dig deeper into why these trends occur. This analysis will be helpful for the CEO to forecast for the next year.    

Question 2         
The CMO is interested in viewing the top 10 countries which are generating the highest revenue. Additionally, the CMO is also interested in viewing the quantity sold along with the revenue generated. The CMO does not want to have the United Kingdom in this visual.         
Question 3          
The CMO of the online retail store wants to view the information on the top 10 customers by revenue. He is interested in a visual that shows the greatest revenue generating customer at the start and gradually declines to the lower revenue generating customers. The CMO wants to target the higher revenue generating customers and ensure that they remain satisfied with their products.        
Question 4         
The CEO is looking to gain insights on the demand for their products. He wants to look at all countries and see which regions have the greatest demand for their products. Once the CEO gets an idea of the regions that have high demand, he will initiate an expansion strategy which will allow the company to target these areas and generate more business from these regions. He wants to view the entire data on a single view without the need to scroll or hover over the data points to identify the demand. There is no need to show data for the United Kingdom as the CEO is more interested in viewing the countries that have expansion opportunities.             


